# MyReads Project

This is my solution for the final assessment project for Udacity's React Fundamentals course.

The MyReads app is a bookshelf app that allows you to select and categorize books you have read, are currently reading, or want to read. This project emphasizes using React to build the application and provides an API server and client library that will be used to persist information while interacting with the application.

## App Functionality

In this application, the main page displays a list of "shelves" (i.e. categories), each of which contains a number of books. The three shelves are:

- Currently Reading
- Want to Read
- Read

Each book has a control that lets you select the shelf for that book. When you select a different shelf, the book moves there. Note that the default value for the control should always be the current shelf the book is in.

The main page also has a link to `/search`
, a search page that allows you to find books to add to your library.

The search page has a text input that may be used to find books. As the value of the text input changes, the books that match that query are displayed on the page, along with a control that lets you add the book to your library.

When a book is on a bookshelf, it should have the same state on both the main application page and the search page.

The search page also has a link to `/` (the root URL), which leads back to the main page.

When you navigate back to the main page from the search page, you should instantly see all of the selections you made on the search page in your library.

## Installation

To run this project you need to:

- fork/clone this repo or download it to your local machine as a .zip file
- install all project dependencies with `npm install`
- start the development server with `npm start`

## File Structure

```bash
├── .gitignore # git version control file.
├── package-lock.json # npm package manager file.
├── package.json # npm package manager file.
├── README.md - This file.
├── yarn.lock # THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE.
├── public
│   ├── favicon.ico # React Icon, You may change if you wish.
│   └── index.html # DO NOT MODIFY
└── src
    ├── components # the UI components
    │   ├── Book.js # this component renders a single book
    │   ├── BookList.js # this component renders the main book list page (containing the shelves)
    │   ├── BookShelf.js # this component renders a single book shelf (containing books on that shelf)
    │   └── Search.js # this component renders the search page
    ├── icons # Helpful images for your app. Use at your discretion.
    │   ├── add.svg
    │   ├── arrow-back.svg
    │   └── arrow-drop-down.svg
    ├── App.css # Styles for the app.
    ├── App.js # This is the root of the app.
    ├── BooksAPI.js # A JavaScript API for the provided Udacity backend. Instructions for the methods are below.
    ├── index.css # Global styles.
    └── index.js # You should not need to modify this file. It is used for DOM rendering only.
```

## Backend Server

> <em>Provided from Udacity</em>

To simplify your development process, we've provided a backend server for you to develop against. The provided file [`BooksAPI.js`](src/BooksAPI.js) contains the methods you will need to perform necessary operations on the backend:

- [`getAll`](#getall)
- [`update`](#update)
- [`search`](#search)

### `getAll`

Method Signature:

```js
getAll();
```

- Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing a collection of book objects.
- This collection represents the books currently in the bookshelves in your app.

### `update`

Method Signature:

```js
update(book, shelf);
```

- book: `<Object>` containing at minimum an `id` attribute
- shelf: `<String>` contains one of ["wantToRead", "currentlyReading", "read"]
- Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing the response data of the POST request

### `search`

Method Signature:

```js
search(query);
```

- query: `<String>`
- Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing a collection of a maximum of 20 book objects.
- These books do not know which shelf they are on. They are raw results only. You'll need to make sure that books have the correct state while on the search page.

## Important

The backend API uses a fixed set of cached search results and is limited to a particular set of search terms, which can be found in [SEARCH_TERMS.md](SEARCH_TERMS.md). That list of terms are the _only_ terms that will work with the backend, so don't be surprised if your searches for Basket Weaving or Bubble Wrap don't come back with any results.

## Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). You can find more information on how to perform common tasks [here](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/main/packages/cra-template/template/README.md).
